For the difference at the neuron level, basically human neurons get the entire picture and pick out pieces of it to determine what the picture is, starting with basic shapes, and getting more complex as it is passed further along. The neural network takes the picture and pulls it apart and each level deterimes the probability of what the picture is. Each one of these stages is a perceptron, or basically a filter. It takes a series of inputs, associates it with a weight depending on a function, adds them all up and outputs a 1 or 0. A perceptron is either 0 or 1 and that is a big jump and it will not help it to learn (Gulli 13), so it smoothes out the number using a activation function, which is usually a sigmoid function or a rectified linear unit.
Both the brain and a multilayer perceptron process information, but do it differently. The human brain is more like a parallel circuit, where it anilyzes the same data multiple ways at the same time, and then adds up the results at the end. A multilayer perceptron is more like a series circuit where it goes through one perceptron at a time and passes the result to the next perceptron. Kind of like if you had hand written numbers a multilayer perceptron would see if it is a 0 first, a 1 second, and so on, while the brain would check it all at the same time, and also color, size, and so on.
While multilayer perceptrons are getting more complex, they can't match the veritility of the human brain.  I really like a line in one of out readings and I think it summed it up nicely. "A human can say 'that cloud looks like a dog', whereas a DNN would say that the cloud is a dog (Ferdandes)." This shows while AI is definitley getting better, it still doesn't have the flexability and creativity of a human brain.

Fernandez, Elizabeth. AI Is Not Similar To Human Intelligence. Thinking So Could Be Dangerous. Nov 30, 2019. https://www.forbes.com/sites/fernandezelizabeth/2019/11/30/ai-is-not-similar-to-human-intelligence-thinking-so-could-be-dangerous/?sh=154dcb206c22

Gulli, Antonio, and Sujit Pal. Deep Learning with Keras : Get to Grips with the Basics of Keras to Implement Fast and Efficient Deep-Learning Models, Packt Publishing, Limited, 2017. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/snhu-ebooks/detail.action?docID=4850536.